now Bangladesh and Colombia have now
joined South Africa in claiming that
Israel is committing genocide against
Palestinians in Gaza Namibia has also
criticized Germany for supporting Israel
in the genocide case at the
international court of justice brought
by South Africa in its statement on X
Namibia accused its former Colonial
ruler Germany of committing the first
genocide of the 20th century between
1904 and 1908 more than 70,000
indigenous ero and N people were killed
in the massacre namibia's President says
Germany is ignoring the lessons of its
past atrocities he accused Berlin of
supporting a genocide in Gaza while
disregarding Israel's killing of
Palestinians well let's speak to Israel
Kano about this he's a Herrero activist
and a member of the namibian NGO
Alliance no Amnesty on genocide joining
us from Berlin thank you so much for
your time a pretty strong me yeah a
pretty strong reaction there from
namibia's president to Germany's
decision to support Israel in in the
genocide case brought against it first
of all for our International audience
who may not be aware about the the past
the history the context tell us more
about why Namibia is challenging Germany
so strongly why you believe that Germany
is not fit to tell what is genocide and
what isn't
genocide yeah first firstly I just want
to confirm
that South German Namibia was the the
the German Colony 1884 to
1915 so it and and secondly this this
was the first Cent the first the 20th
first 20th century uh
genocide it means our land was occupied
by the German
kaisa troops military confiscating our
land Force Labor uh raping and of course
the F uh um um concentration camps in
our in our country former German
Southwest Africa yeah so our the problem
is that Germany is still not recognizing
us officially as as
genocide and um and we are demanding we
have three pillars what we are demanding
apology um uh recognition of genoside
and reparation and up to now Germany is
refusing all these three points I my
understanding was that sorry to
interrupt you but and correct me if I'm
wrong my understanding was that in 2018
they had uh apologize for the massacres
and announc a scheme for reparations did
did that not happen yeah no it it well
we as when you read the The Joint
declaration in this declaration no word
reparation is mentioned no no genocide
is is mentioned in this joint
declaration that's why we as as
Herrero organizations and the opposition
parties in Namibia we reject this joint
declaration because they don't even
mention the word reparation in this
declaration right in the statement that
the President issued uh he said that
Namibia I mean the namibian president
said that not only Germany uh committed
this first what it says is a first
genocide of the 20th century in Namibia
that but that many of the horrific
tactics which were used against the
herero were repeated later on during the
Holocaust can you tell us a bit more
about the the Herrera experience during
uh those massacres they died I
understand in the most inhumane and
brutal
conditions yeah exactly they they died
some of them they have to to flee the
country to to another country like
Botswana and and as as I said many of
them died in concentration camps and uh
and and of course the you know and today
the heras and namas they are demanding
their land back which is still occupied
by the German settlers 60 to 70% of of
of our land is still occupied by the
Germans this is our our demands we want
our land back we want reparation from
Germany because of all these atrocities
what we call
genocide so these are the most important
think that even we were not the the
Heros and namas were not involved in
these negotiations in Berlin in 2015
yeah and just coming back to the case uh
yeah you want U reparations uh and
that's understandable but just coming
back to the case that's in front of the
international court of justice right now
on on what's happening in Gaza do you
think do you feel Germany support to
Israel's defense will have will have uh
weight will carry weight will it make a
difference for Israel or will it hurt
Israel yeah Germany is trying to dodge
because they know if South Africa
succeed in this case so they they then
then the next is Germany because we are
we we are we are going to to to through
Germany we are not finished with Germany
so our solidarity is also with the
Palestinian civilian in Gaza and the
Palestinian people because their land is
occupied and we we had this
this experience of occupation and
atrocities in in in German Southwest
Africa this is what our brothers in
Palestina and and Westland you know are
now experiencing so this is our
solidarity and the government of Namibia
is you know is so is also supporting the
the South African step to this kind of
to the case at the international court
of justice
thank you so much for your time we
really appreciate you talking to us
about this
Israeli from the namibian NG Alliance no
Amnesty on genocide joining us there
from Berlin thank you very much for your
time okay thank you thank you very much